---
layout: post
title: "Hell's Gate Direct Syscalls - Unveiling the Power of Kernel-level Calls"
categories: [System Programming, Exploitation, Security]
---

## Introduction

Introducing modern evasion techniques demands innovative and unconventional strategies to outwit the pervasive industry-leading EDR (Endpoint Detection and Response) products prevalent today. As Red Teamers, our mission is to delve into the defensive capabilities of these robust Endpoint Protection solutions, allowing us to craft payloads capable of circumventing the myriad of defensive controls and detections they employ. While open source tools can offer some initial advantage in bypassing certain defensive measures, true success and subtlety in our endeavors can only be achieved by taking the plunge and authoring our own custom malware.

To navigate the ever-evolving landscape of cybersecurity, we must go beyond conventional methods of evasion. Understanding the intricacies of modern EDR technologies is paramount, as it enables us to identify their blind spots and tailor our approaches accordingly. Armed with this knowledge, we can craft sophisticated and stealthy payloads that effectively bypass detection mechanisms.

In a world where cyber threats are increasingly dynamic and elusive, relying solely on off-the-shelf tools may provide temporary gains. However, to achieve lasting success as Red Teamers, we must embrace the art of crafting our own malware. This not only grants us the freedom to create bespoke solutions but also fosters a deeper understanding of the inner workings of endpoint protection products.

While the path of writing custom malware may appear daunting, it empowers us to adapt swiftly to the shifting tactics of defenders. We can create unique attack vectors that are less likely to be flagged by signature-based detection, behavioral analysis, or other conventional measures.

This post will cover some important malware development techniques that are crucial to understand as a basis for more sophisticated techniques. We will dive deep into the Hell's Gate syscall ID extractor technique and use C++ to accomplish our goals. I won't attempt to justify C++ as the best malware development language, but it is an incredibly powerful language that I've come to appreciate. When it comes to Windows malware development, it is just hard to beat C++ or C for efficiency and sophistication when building malware that interacts at a low-level using things like custom and inline assembly.

## Section 1: Understanding Direct Syscalls in Windows

In the realm of Windows operating systems, syscalls (system calls) are fundamental mechanisms that enable user-mode applications to interact with the kernel. Syscalls provide a way for user-space processes to request services or access system functionalities that require elevated privileges.

### What are Syscalls in Windows?

Syscalls in Windows serve as an interface between user-mode applications and the Windows kernel. They offer a controlled entry point for user programs to request actions that would otherwise be restricted due to their sensitive nature. Syscalls allow user-mode applications to communicate with kernel-mode components, which manage core operating system functions.

Some common examples of syscalls in Windows include:

- `NtCreateFile`: To create or open files or devices.
- `NtReadFile`: To read data from files or devices.
- `NtWriteFile`: To write data to files or devices.
- `NtClose`: To close files or devices after usage.
- `NtCreateProcess`: To create a new process.
- `NtTerminateProcess`: To terminate a process.

### Syscalls in Malware Development

In the context of malware development, syscalls play a crucial role in the execution and evasion of malicious code. Malware leverages syscalls to interact directly with the Windows kernel, enabling it to execute privileged operations and avoid detection by security software that monitors higher-level API calls.

Malware developers use syscalls for several reasons:

#### 1. Evasion and Stealth

By utilizing direct syscalls, malware can evade detection by traditional security solutions that focus on monitoring API calls. EDR and AV products tend to set hooks in the userland Windows API functions that allow the products to monitor execution and detect anomalous or malicious behavior. Calling the syscall directly allows us to bypass those userland hooks thus evading the userland EDR detection.

#### 2. Direct Kernel Access

Syscalls provide malware with direct access to the Windows kernel, enabling it to manipulate critical system structures, inject malicious code into other processes, or modify system configurations. This level of access grants the malware significant control over the compromised system.

#### 3. Custom Functionality

Malware can leverage syscalls to implement custom functionality tailored to its specific objectives. Bypassing higher-level APIs, the malware can directly control hardware, intercept network traffic, or execute intricate actions customized for the targeted system.

In conclusion, syscalls in Windows are crucial mechanisms that allow user-mode applications to interact with the kernel. Unfortunately, in the wrong hands, such as malware developers, syscalls can be exploited to create sophisticated and evasive malware. Understanding the role of syscalls is essential for both offensive and defensive security practitioners, as it provides insights into how malware can leverage these low-level mechanisms for stealthy and impactful attacks.


## Section 2: Understanding Hell's Gate Syscall Technique

In the realm of offensive security and low-level malware development, the Hell's Gate syscall technique stands out as a powerful and stealthy approach to bypassing endpoint protection and executing privileged operations on Windows systems. Understanding this technique is crucial for Red Teamers and cybersecurity professionals alike, as it grants us a deeper insight into the intricacies of Windows kernel exploitation and evasion.

### What is Hell's Gate Syscall Technique?

Hell's Gate is an ingenious technique that dynamically extracts the syscall id within the context of a 64-bit Windows process. In the x86-64 architecture, the syscall instruction is used to transition from user mode to kernel mode, granting access to the privileged functionality of the Windows kernel. However, Windows imposes restrictions on the range of syscall numbers accessible via the syscall instruction, limiting the functions that can be invoked directly from user mode.

The Hell's Gate technique involves a multi-step process:

1. **Memory Corruption:** Initially, the technique leverages memory corruption vulnerabilities to overwrite a specific memory location with an arbitrary value.

2. **Context Manipulation:** By modifying the system call context, the technique points the syscall instruction to an innocuous-looking system call number, such as 0x1337.

3. **Dynamic Extraction:** At this point, the technique takes advantage of the altered context to execute the syscall instruction. As a result, the arbitrary value placed in the memory location dynamically becomes the actual syscall id.

By using this dynamic extraction process, Hell's Gate evades detection by security solutions that monitor for traditional syscall patterns, making it an exceptionally stealthy and effective technique for executing privileged operations in user mode.

### Why is Hell's Gate Important to Know?

#### 1. **Dynamic Extraction of Syscall ID:**

The core significance of Hell's Gate lies in its ability to dynamically extract the syscall id, allowing access to otherwise restricted system calls. This technique opens up new possibilities for crafting advanced malware that can perform powerful operations not attainable through conventional means.

#### 2. **Stealth and Evasion:**

By exploiting memory corruption vulnerabilities and dynamically extracting the syscall id, Hell's Gate enhances the stealthiness of malicious code. This makes it considerably more challenging for endpoint protection products to detect and block the execution of malicious activities.

#### 3. **Evasion of Signature-Based Detection:**

Signature-based detection mechanisms rely on identifying known patterns and sequences of system calls. By utilizing dynamic syscall extraction, Hell's Gate executes system calls in an obfuscated manner, effectively evading detection by signature-based security solutions.

In conclusion, the Hell's Gate syscall technique is a powerful and essential tool in the arsenal of offensive security professionals. By dynamically extracting the syscall id, Hell's Gate empowers us to create stealthy, sophisticated, and resilient malware that can operate undetected on Windows systems. Knowledge of Hell's Gate expands our understanding of Windows kernel exploitation and provides us with the means to navigate the formidable landscape of endpoint protection defenses successfully.


## Section 3: Hands On Hell's Gate Implementation

In this section, we are going to develop a C++ Hell's Gate implementation that will start with a very necessary malware development technique known as "Walking the PEB".

##### What is the PEB?
The Process Environment Block (PEB) is a fundamental data structure in Windows that stores essential information about a user-mode process. It contains data related to the process's execution environment, such as command-line arguments, environment variables, loaded modules (DLLs), and security settings. "Walking the PEB" refers to the process of traversing and accessing this data within the PEB, enabling developers and security analysts to gain insights into the process's configuration, environment, and interactions with the system. While this low-level technique can be valuable for debugging and analysis, caution should be exercised to avoid unintended consequences or unauthorized access to sensitive information.

## Conclusion

Summarize the significance of Hell's Gate direct syscalls in system programming.
Emphasize the importance of understanding potential security risks and applying proper mitigation strategies.

